---
title: Peace, Violence, and Revolution
date: 2023-04-07 18:14:30 +0100
---

Throughout history the relationship between peace and violence has been hotly debated. Everyone agrees that peace is generally good and violence is generally bad. However, many have argued that violence can be necessary to create peace. Many peaceful philosophies have employed "warrior monks" to protect their fragile peace. This was necessary because they couldn't spread general peace across the entire world yet: they didn't even know the size of the entire world at that point. They were forced to create their little pocket of peace and protect it by learning to practice violence, in case violence ever became necessary.

In 2023, we now stand on the precipice of World Peace. We know how big the world is, we know most of the stuff in it, and the wars currently happening are actually quite small (albeit horrible). This brings me to the point of this article: violent revolution is no longer at all necessary to create world peace. In the most developed and rich areas, power has nominally already been placed in the hands of the people who live there. Once the idea of communism is widely accepted, it will be implemented in these societies via the existing democratic government.

From there, peace will spread organically to the less developed nations. The limited wars that are currently happening have been allowed to happen because of 1. autocratic tyranny e.g. Vladimir Putin's Russia and 2. secretive capitalist interference e.g. George Bush's CIA. Autocratic tyranny will be abolished soon; secrecy has already been abolished, take Chelsea Manning or Edward Snowden for example.

For this reason the only revolution that is needed is Social Revolution. I believe that peaceful revolution is more effective for creating a paradigm shift (Jesus of Nazareth, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.) whereas violent revolution is more effective for eradicating a tyrant class that refuses to let go of its power (The French Revolutions). Social revolution is best achieved with pacifism, since it gives the enemies of the revolution zero ammunition to use against them. The ruling class of the developed nations no longer has the power to violently cling onto their position. The greatest power our ruling class has is the police force; a police force for which trust is already at an all-time low due to incidents like the murder of George Floyd and the Casey report on the Met. If the idea are correct and the methods are peaceful, the opponents of the revolution will have absolutely no choice but to yield; then, fighting around the world will be over.
