# Introduction to Politics

Chapter 1: First Man / Man

[Blank screen] If you wish to understand politics, you must first invent the human race. [Evolution montage]
Humanity was born about 700,000 years ago, probably in Africa. Over time, we became the dominant predator species on Earth, and eventually spread across the entire globe.
At this point, we were primitive hunter-gatherers, living in caves in families and tribes of maybe 50 people, hunting mammoths, bison, etc.
x years ago, something incredible happened. An explosion of technological development. [Image: timeline] 
Some human realised that we didn't have to just eat the berries we were picking. We could put them into the ground, and they'd grow into a bush which would give us many more berries. This discovery probably happned in the middle east.
At this point, we stopped moving around so much, and started to invent things like ploughs and cities.
This gave birth to the first bona fide political system: feudalism. Small kingdoms started to form.
When you think of a king, you probably think of someone like the king of england. At this point, kingdoms would not be so large. Kings (and sometimes queens) would rule over cities or smaller territories. [Images: egyptian and european kingdoms coalescing].
Over time, the kingdoms fought with one another. When one kingdom defeated another, sometimes they would form a new, larger kingdom, made up of territory of both the previous kingdoms. [Video: agar.io]
In Ancient Greece, political theorists first came up with the idea of Democracy. This political system was a good idea, but it would not be implemented worldwide until much later. [Image: those old guys having the big discussion]

Chapter 2: Industry
In Britain, something incredible happened. The next big explosion of technology. The steam engine. We rapidly invented machines to producing clothes and travelling much faster. At the same time, Britain and other European civilisations set out across the world in great ships to "discover" new continents. On these continents they turned their kingdoms into empires, the largest empires in the history of humanity.

At this point, the seeds of Democracy began to flourish. Revolutions and reform happened at the thrones of the empires. Later, the colonised peoples demanded democracy of their own, and became mostly independent. In this period a great deal more technological, scientific, and social development is happening.

karl marx invents communism
forget to mention money

Chapter 3: War
World War II was the largest conflict ever inflicted on the human race by itself. Fascism was defeated in Germany, Italy, and Japan by the mostly democratic allied forces. One of these allies was the Soviet Union, a large, recently formed nation which was trying out a new political system: communism. The USA, a capitalist nation, turns against their allies, beginning the Cold War. Communism fails and the country turns into the Russian Federation, a plutocracy.

Chapter 4: Information
During WWII, humans invented an early kind of computer. They also invented nuclear bombs. Computers have developed rapidly into a brilliant new technology that has changed a lot of how we organise ourselves and how we make new progress. This brings us roughly to the present day, when I'm making this video: 2023.

You might have noticed that the rate of development is increasing a lot. This is a worrying trend but I'm interested to see where it will go next.

Chapter 5: Politics
In the present day there are a few main political ideas. [Image: political axis]
Fascism blames minority groups for problems in society. They want to murder those minorities for the alleged good of the rest of society. [Hitler, EDL, Proud Boys]
Conservatism wants to preserve society exactly how it is now, or in some cases regress back to how we were. [Whoever invented conservatism, conservatives, republicans]
Centrists want to do nothing.
Liberals want to arrange society by free trade and democracy. [Voltaire?, labour, democrats]
Since free trade and democracy are how we already arrange society, some people will group liberalism, centrism, and conservatism into the same category.
Communists want to abolish money, and corporations, and place all political power into the hands of common people. How this would be safely accomplished is not yet certain.

Chapter 6: Future
[Image: timeline stretching out]
The future of politics is uncertain. The fact is, many of the problems in today's world are political in nature. Climate change is a major problem that could be solved by building much more solar power, wind power, and maybe nuclear power. This has not yet happened because fossil fuel mining companies want to keep making lots of money. People are homeless, but there are lots of empty homes. Homeless people haven't moved into the empty homes because landlords want to keep making lots of money. War is still happening, because people like Putin want to keep having lots of power.

Full disclosure here, I am a communist and I made this video to try and spread my beliefs. I hope to see greater democracy and full equality in the world in the future. I believe this to be completely possible. Many people would disagree. Many think that capitalism is the end point of politics, and that we will keep using it forever. It's entirely possible that the nuclear weapons will wipe most of us out at some point. Hopefully that doesn't happen. In any case, I think political education and transparency is always a good thing, which is why I made this video. Let's all try to create the best future possible for ourselves, our children, and our childrens' children.

information
acceleration
the major ideaologies from right to left
the future
narration inspiration: fred knudsen, that narrator from Denis Dune
politics is important
#leftism #politics #philosophy #communism
